[country music]
Good morning guys.
Today we have a mega road trip ahead of us.
We're going deep out into
the Arkansas Ozark Mountains.
I'd say one of the most mysterious
and misunderstood parts of the country.
Cruising the Corolla.
We got until sundown.
Go get lost in the hollers
and the small towns out in the hills.
The goal, meet the locals,
and find out what it's really like
to live out in the Ozarks.
Let's do this.
[country music]
Alright guys,
here we are in Eureka Springs.
It's gonna be the most touristy part
of the trip today I think.
It came about because of the water here.
It was known as healing water,
and people from all over the state
and the region, perhaps the country,
came down to be healed
and this town built up
somewhat off a story.
This place was founded in 1880.
The healing water craze ended.
Town went down in population.
Got really cheap
and then in the 60s and 70s,
the back-to-the-landers came in,
the artists, the hippies,
and planted their flag here.
We're gonna get up on these back streets.
You can see the Victorian up there.
This place is known for its architecture,
it's beautiful homes.
And it's funky. It's quirky.
It's definitely a unique type of place.
-How are you guys doing?
-Good.
You guys from around here?
From Arkansas, we come to
Eureka frequently, and you're Peter.
-[laughing] What's your name?
-Eli.
Good to meet you.
You go on some crazy adventures.
-Eli, I'm in your home state.
I'm doing a deep dive series on Arkansas.
What's Eureka Springs like?
It's amazing. It's eclectic.
It's a four and a half hour drive for us.
We live in South Arkansas.
-You come all the way up for this town?
-Oh, yeah.
Come when we can get away.
Left the kids at home with the dogs.
Healing waters?
I don't know if they're healing but…
the town is healing.
-The new healing waters
are beer at night, right?
-That's right.
We love the mountains. Love the Ozarks.
We love the culture up here. The community.
There's a lot of really cool shops.
Neat places to eat.
It's just relaxing.
And we go to all the same places
every time but it never gets old.
What is the Ozarks to you?
How would you describe them 'cause
I've just entered for the first time.
-The prettiest place in Arkansas.
-For sure.
It is absolutely
the most gorgeous place in Arkansas.
-Okay, I'm going as deep as I can today.
I'm going into Jasper.
I'm ending in Mountain View.
Jasper has gotten a bad reputation
over the years from earlier times.
Kind of like Harrison if you're familiar.
-Okay, so old Civil War stuff or what?
-No, racist stuff.
Oh!
Like KKK kind of stuff. All that.
But we went through Jasper last year.
It's gorgeous. It was amazing.
Everybody was nice.
It's more like this now.
-Okay, so that's mostly in the past.
But it's got that reputation.
Yeah, from times past.
This is more touristy than I thought
I'd be out in the sticks.
-But this is a destination.
-Yes, it is.
People come from all over.
This whole area back here is just
historic housing for the most part.
-Have you been to the Crescent?
-I just got here.
You've got to do
the ghost tour at the Crescent.
-Oh man, I don't have time.
-They do it every night.
-I'll be in Mountain View.
-Oh man, that's horrible.
You gotta check out the Crescent.
There's a lot of history there.
I can't believe they all came
for the water, huh?
-Yeah.
-The healing water.
The story's behind that because that's what
the Crescent was basically built for.
-Okay.
It was a sanitarium
where they were taking care of people.
-Because of the healing waters.
-Right.
And there was Civil War troops
coming here to be cared for.
And then some quack was running it
claiming he could cure stuff.
A lot of history there.
-You've lived here 25 years?
-Yeah.
-What's it like now?
-It's pretty much the same.
It's the best pace of life ever.
I moved up towards the Osage area.
You have neighbors like maybe
once every five miles, you know.
So you're out, you're by yourself.
And I absolutely love the thing.
I'm coming from big city, you know.
I did eight years in the military.
So this is my place.
This is my sanctuary.
You go anywhere else… listen here.
So whenever we go to Texas, right,
you can totally smell
the air quality difference.
It's just nice here.
It's just another way of life.
We have people come here
all the time that, you know,
Arkansas does something to the people.
And it makes them want to stay.
-This is my wife.
-Oh, okay, sorry.
I thought you were recording, I was like…
-Did she feel the same way?
-She was born and raised here.
No way. How was that?
I was born in the hospital.
1980, they had a Mayo Clinic.
Greatest doctors ever here.
But they shut the delivering part down.
So right after I was born,
no more babies.
-You were the last one.
-That was it.
They were wheeling my mom
through the waiting room
to get to where
they could deliver me safely.
So what was it like growing up here?
Safe, magical, whimsical.
I lived a really sheltered life though.
Because I didn't see all the dangers
and all the things of the world.
So when we moved out of here,
it was real eye opening.
-But now you've moved back.
I always come back home.
I raise my kids here
and my grand babies are here.
Okay, still super safe?
Absolutely.
-Everyone knows everyone type place?
-Not anymore.
But yes, we try our best.
-Has it always been touristy?
That's what we are, a tourist town.
Always has been, huh?
Ever since the waters in the beginning?
We White people took those waters
from the Indians and called it Eureka.
And they moved on and we started building
and the railroad helped us
build Crescent and start building
our big buildings along the main strip.
It's burned down a couple times
and the artists and the hippies
brought it back.
And we're still here.
-Super creative place?
Very. It's magical.
Have you ever had deja vu or
right time, right place, kind of feeling?
-Yeah.
It's like that all the time here.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
-What's in here?
-Oh, go in.
-This is all of us.
We made everything in here.
-You made everything?
-Yeah.
-Oh, nice. What a beautiful shop.
Do you two love working together?
-[both] Absolutely, man.
-[laughter]
On cue.
We're together 24/7.
-That's my best friend there.
-Good for you guys.
Thanks, man.
I'm gonna cruise up
into this neighborhood.
I heard those are the beautiful homes.
And then go to a haunted house.
-Crescent Hotel.
-[both] Yes.
-Ghost are real. Let me show you a picture.
-For real.
-You got some ghost stories?
-Oh, yeah.
So at the Crescent, there's a tabby cat.
The tabby cat has since passed.
Now they have a black cat?
-There's two black cats,
but his name was Otis.
So anyways, the tabby cat is a ghost
that's still at the Crescent.
And here he is.
You see him?
-Might be hard to pick up on the camera.
-It might.
You truly believe?
-Absolutely. 100%.
-You have to see to believe.
You have to feel to believe.
And I know for certain
that there are spirits there.
I've never felt anything
negative or malevolent.
They'll play little tricks on the maids
and move towels and stuff.
They'll make the sign on the outside
of the door spin that says do not disturb.
They'll flick lights, pull your covers.
But nothing, nothing as evil as that ever.
And I've heard some stories
growing up here.
I'm gonna do my best
to capture that feeling on camera.
You're gonna have so much fun.
-I love your fire. Both of you.
You have a good one.
-Thank you. Take care.
This is a cool, funky town.
It's got some
Nevada City, California vibes.
It's got almost a little bit of
deep Appalachia
as far as you feel tucked away
from everything else vibes.
And this place is just somewhere
you can just walk around.
It's enjoyable.
Grand entryway.
Hi guys. I was told to go to
the most haunted part of this hotel.
Where is that?
So 218 is our most haunted room.
Okay. Okay.
It does get booked
so it might be occupied at the moment.
But the second floor
is kind of just all around.
It has history.
-It's haunted feel?
-Mm-hmm.
[woman] …on an actual tour
with our ghost tour guides
and it gets access to
the basement downstairs.
That was the morgue of the hotel.
They kind of left it all original
back whenever it was a hospital.
-Do you love working here?
-Yeah.
-It's like stepping into the old world.
-It is. Yeah.
[Peter] Look at this beauty.
That's so cool.
That organ right there.
Near room 218.
Right here.
Sir, is this where it's supposed to
feel haunted right here?
-Yeah. 218 and 419.
-Have you ever seen the ghost?
-Do you feel it?
At the back porch.
Sometimes they open without wind.
-Seriously?
-Yeah.
Well I could guess in the right conditions
this could feel a bit creepy.
You know, the ghost tours, who knows?
It'd be interesting to check out though.
[man] It was originally
one of the best upper echelon hotels.
Horseback riding,
indoor plumbing, electricity.
-It was kind of like…
-Ahead of the times.
-Yeah, best place to go.
-Still is, right?
Absolutely. It's changed over the years.
It was a cancer hospital,
it was a women's college at one point.
The ghost stories? You a believer?
Let's be honest.
I've been here for 10 years and I've seen
some stuff that was less than logical.
-I'll leave it at that.
-Like what?
Just doors opening when they shouldn't,
sounds, eerie feelings,
people leaving their rooms at 2:00 AM
'cause they get scared.
-Are you serious? Wow.
-Yeah. Definitely seen that before.
It was a cancer hospital and the guy
who was running it wasn't a doctor
and his name was "Dr." Norman Baker.
I recommend looking him up.
He encouraged people
to come get better and they didn't.
He's the doctor that brought people
for the healing waters.
-Absolutely.
-Okay.
And his magic elixir and everything else.
So it was a marketing scheme
for the most part.
More than. He was a charlatan.
He was ahead of his time. He was smart.
But that message built
this whole place, this whole town?
The railroad came through here too.
So that helps a lot.
-Your name?
-Jared.
Jared, you're awesome.
Thank you, man. Take care.
[country music]
Here we are in the town of Kingston.
Now we're covering big distances.
That's been one hour in the car
since Eureka Springs.
This is country out here.
Nailed the weather today.
Absolutely perfect.
What do we got here? A little flea market?
-How you doing, sir?
-Fine, how are you?
-Good. Are you from Kingston?
-Yeah.
About six miles from here.
-Okay. How's it going out here?
-Good.
Back behind here used to be
an old Blacksmith shop.
-Okay.
-Years ago.
This road right here,
we might see one car a day.
All day long.
It was dirt road.
So it's changed a lot.
My dad never did drive an automobile.
-Just a horse?
We'd come to town with the wagon.
-Seriously?
-I'm serious.
-You grew up going to town in the wagon?
-Yeah.
I'd be behind the mule,
plowing the fields.
It's changed a lot.
In fact, this road right here
was the first job I had
when I got out of high school
is helping pave this road 21.
-Is this your better half?
Yeah. We've been married two years.
-Two years? Congrats.
-Newlyweds.
-That's awesome.
How's that?
Getting right back into the game.
-That is great.
-How'd you two meet?
Through church.
-He jumped the line and asked you
on a date? Or what happened?
-No. It was the other way around.
-Get out.
She's started the subject..
-You love traveling.
You've been to all the lower 48 states.
The national parks.
How do you compare Arkansas?
It's up there towards the top.
-Where else do you like?
-I love Oregon.
-But we just got back from Texas.
-Oh, cool.
I'm from Fort Worth.
I'd rather say I'm an Arky.
-You're an Arky, okay.
-I don't like Texas.
Sir, how long does it take
to become an Arky?
-You gotta be born here?
-I'm from Texas.
-You're from Texas?
-38 years.
How does one end up here from Texas?
I come, met my wife
at a revival here at Kingston.
-We helped a revival. Our church did.
-Okay.
We had 26 youth that came
and held four nights of revival.
-How is it living out here?
-Really great.
-You love it?
Hope it don't change, but it will.
You got more of that, right?
More tourists like me?
Oh yeah.
You feel the economic spillover
from Northwestern Arkansas,
the Bentonville area?
-It's coming.
-You feel that?
We just sat in on meetings called the IDA.
They're trying to push
Bentonville and Fayetteville.
Just trying to incorporate
Madison County into their county.
But all it amounted to
is they're out of land.
They're wanting to expand this way.
-How's farming these days?
It's good right now.
The price of cattle is high.
But it won't stay there.
-Okay, so it's good at the moment.
What was the industry back here?
Lumber? Farming?
Yes.
Just outside town here,
there's some rocks still
and there was a stave mill.
And staves are what you use
to make barrels.
And my dad and my uncle
would haul staves to Clarksville
for them to put the barrels together.
-Your father moved to California?
He worked a year and a half
and came back and got mama
and they got married
and my brother was born in California.
They lived in Compton.
-Outside LA?
-Yeah.
But in the 50's it wasn't as bad.
But they moved eight times.
He followed housing developments
and cleaned up after them.
So that's the story, you might have to
get out of town to make your money.
And then come back.
I went 1st grade through 12th grade here
and then I taught here 14 years.
-How was that?
-Best life ever.
None of our kids even when I taught,
had locks on lockers.
Nobody stole anything.
-Still safe out here like that?
Um, to a point.
-You didn't have meth back in the day?
Correct.
-And there's some of that in these hills?
-Yes.
Is it bad?
In my opinion, yes.
You think?
-Meth?
-Yeah.
-It's bad?
-It's getting in here.
-It's getting in here?
It's not going down, it's going up?
It's going up.
I mean, it's a good place to hide.
Where we live
it's a mile to our closest neighbor.
-Oh, that's nice.
A lot of people live in the country
but they come on Saturdays.
I've got a picture of 150 people
here in the square
trading and selling.
-They'd all come out of the hills
for the weekend?
There'd be a fight every weekend.
-A fight?
-A fist fight or something.
You guys have calmed down ever since?
-Oh yeah.
-A little.
Not all the way though.
-That's why we're called Booger County.
-Booger County?
Loving Booger County.
What an interesting place.
We have Grandpa's,
Cobs Corner Market,
open seven days, groceries,
picnic supplies.
It looks like it's a restaurant of sorts.
Maybe a coffee shop. A new coffee shop.
So there's a little energy
coming into this place.
-Hey, how you doing?
-Great, how are you?
-Look at this place.
-Yeah.
Is it an old pharmacy?
It is an old general store.
We're getting ready to open up a store.
We're still working but people are coming
in all the time and buy stuff.
I'm making a video on the Ozarks.
-Help yourself.
-So, can I see this map over here?
Absolutely.
So is that where we're at, near a river?
About 15 minutes away
from the Buffalo River.
Where you are currently,
well, if you can't quite see it.
-But we're over here.
-Okay.
And then you just drive
down the road about 15, 20 minutes,
and then you'll be like…
-I'm gonna Jasper.
-Yeah, so Jasper's gonna be over. here.
-That's beautiful, right?
-That's, oh yeah.
We own a cabin right up the road,
but we've been coming over here
for about 12 years.
And we love it so much
and we've seen this building
empty for the last few years
and we've always wanted to
open up an outdoor store.
So, here we are.
We've been working since February.
We're gonna have a grand opening.
Can we go back there? I love these boxes.
It's an old apothecary.
I mean, you just can't recreate
this stuff these days, you know?
-No, look around. Help yourself.
-Oh, thank you.
Oh, this is great.
See these old boxes.
See you, guys.
[door bells jingle]
Listen.
Old wooden doors. Love that sound.
We've got the old timers, the old stories,
some new blood coming in.
When I get deep in the interior,
like Appalachia,
you come in and every town
is going through its own cycle,
own transformation.
Some are really grinding on the bottom.
Others are in this process of coming back,
reinventing themselves.
Will these places be filled up?
Let's say, I don't know, in 10 years.
Is this a hopping town?
Do people move back in?
These businesses come alive.
I guess it would just be tourism
that would be the main driver here.
All right, guys. Doing the audiobook.
Your fellow Americans.
If you don't want to buy print,
you can listen to it.
This process is actually quite difficult.
I'm surprised. The chapter right now,
Deep Appalachia.
And so an example of what my week is like.
I woke up in a small town in Virginia
called Bluefield.
Nestled in a remote value.
See, I messed up.
Luckily, I'm with the pros
at Simon & Schuster.
I have Christina, we can't see her.
She's a little camera shy, but she's great.
And then we have Brennan
at the nerve center over there.
He's keeping it all together.
But overall it's a pretty cool process.
Guys,
this is gonna be available August 4th.
Also, another thing I wanted to mention.
In the book
there are ten separate chapters
that stand on their own.
We have some of the classics from
the videos like Amish Country or East LA.
But you can pick up the book,
go through a story, put it down,
start anew at another time.
It's not a huge commitment.
The beauty of this book
is if you love the videos,
behind the scenes there's a ton going on
that you don't see online.
Some of that's in here.
Also, my origin story.
How I got into doing this.
I never ask for you guys
to like or subscribe on the channel.
But if you like the mission here,
consider getting a pre-order down below.
Reason being, more pre-orders we get here,
the more likelihood it has
to get into the big booksellers
and actually get out into the world.
You're gonna love this.
It's a great story about our country.
Despite the chaotic times,
the turbulent times,
this is something to get excited about.
Celebrate our country for its birthday.
Thanks for being part of this.
Now back to the Ozarks.
Look at that DVD collection.
-Hey, how you doing?
-Hi. What's up?
-This is a great town. It's cool.
-Yeah, it is.
You've got a great bunch of locals
over there in the square.
Have you not been here before?
-First time.
-Oh, no kidding.
-First time Arkansas, actually.
-This is the library we started in… 1983.
In fact, Reba back here and myself
were two of the first ones to do that.
-Reba was in on it?
-Reba, yeah.
-All right.
-And we started in a bookmobile.
And then moved it up
to the fire department.
And then moved it down here in 2005.
And we're the friends of the library too,
so we bought
that building next door, the Annex.
It's a 1912 drugstore.
This one here next door.
It's got library books in there now to sell
if you want to buy one.
Yeah, Boyson had a store in there.
A drugstore in there.
-Okay. Great.
-Hey, Kelly.
-How are you guys?
-Alright.
-Hey, Kelly?
-Yes?
Do you know Reba?
-Hi.
-Reba Bollinger.
She's one of our original friends.
Me and Reba and…
I raised my family
eight miles up the river.
Oh, great. Fantastic.
She's been with the library since 1983.
The bookmobile down there.
-Since the beginning.
-Yeah.
My husband moved me down here
before he died
'cause he didn't want
to leave me on the farm.
Yeah, well. This is Kelly.
-Hi.
-She is now with the Buffalo Base Camp.
Yeah, over at the General Store. Yup.
-It's interesting seeing
the transformation of the town.
You got Reba from the old guard.
And you've moved in
and you're bringing back this building.
Trying to bring it back to life.
You've seen a lot, Reba, huh?
Through the years here?
-Seen a lot of stuff, huh?
-Yeah.
Down here in Madison County.
No matter where I go,
I've seen stuff all over the United States.
I've been in every state
in the United States.
I never put a foot in Delaware.
You drove through it?
My mind is bad. I'm just 97.
-You're 97?!
But anyway… Good for you, Reba.
She turned the TV off back in the…
Tell them when you turned the TV off.
Well, I think it was '79.
My husband's health got so bad that
I couldn't hear him if he needed me.
And then after he passed away,
I couldn't make myself turn the TV on.
One of the grandkids came later
and tried to turn it on.
She said no thanks.
When the lightning had burned it,
I had to maintain it.
What's your secret to a long life?
You've been reading an awful lot.
Work hard. I farmed.
I went out and helped my husband farm.
Yeah, hauling hay.
-Tilling, plowing the fields.
-That's what my grandma did too.
I grew up in a town very similar to this.
It's not foreign to me.
So I feel very comfortable here
because you know.
-Are the locals cool? They let you in?
Or there's some that are holding…
Okay, so I was told
the locals would not like
having a new business here.
That's the rumor I heard.
I know, I know.
It has been the complete opposite.
Everybody has come over
and has welcomed us.
Brought us fresh eggs.
Brought us sourdough. Brought us cookies.
It has been the complete opposite.
Coming over to say, hey, welcome.
We're so glad that that
building is 136 years old.
And so everybody's just excited
that there's some life back into it.
When I first came to this town…
-…it was busy all around.
-Yeah.
If this is your first time in town,
take a look at the bank window.
The old safe there.
Did you go across the street from the bank?
The safe was built…
on that pedestal
so if there were a fire.
it would just give way and that big safe
would roll through the front windows.
-Didn't someone try to steal it
and they drug it out
and followed the tracks or something?
That's what I heard.
There's a lot of…
That could be folklore too.
Someone tried to steal it
and they drug it out
with horses or something
and they followed the scrape marks.
-Nice meeting you, sir.
The building next door here
is part of the library too.
Yeah, that's the annex. It's donation only
but you can get whatever books you want.
-Okay.
-This used to be a bed and breakfast.
-[woman] Did you show him the bank?
-We're seeing it right now.
-Here's your…
-Oh, nice!
-Cool, cool, cool. Old bank safe.
-Old school bank safe.
-Look at that. What is this now?
-It's still a bank.
-Seriously?
-It's a local bank?
-Get out.
-It's a full functioning bank.
Anstaff Bank, never heard to it.
-She's a family of
this original general store.
She's part of the Bunch family.
-I brought you some stuff.
-Oh, fantastic. She brought me some stuff.
-What'd she bring you?
-I had asked the community for some…
-My son has a whole bunch more.
I had asked the community
for some old pictures and stuff.
This building is on
the National Historic Registry.
Oh, that's so cool.
And I had asked the community,
"Do you have any old pictures or articles
that I can hang up in here
to preserve part of this history?"
And so Mrs. Glenda Bunch…
this was the Bunch general store,
has brought me some. So…
-Now he has a bunch more
that he'll bring down.
You can keep that. I have one.
Okay, I'll…
Oh, fantastic.
Oh, yeah.
Okay, this is the bank. I don't know.
It's when Dougal and them bought it.
-So I don't know if you want that.
-I'll take anything. Yeah.
So this is the bank that we just looked at.
You can have this.
That's the original sale bill.
[Peter] Oh, that is so cool.
-So back in 1998
when this closed down they did a big…
It was called the Sale of the Century.
So there's the outside of it and you can
see right here is that stove right there.
-It was called the Sale of the Century?
Yeah, people from Cracker Barrel
and everybody
was here trying to buy the antiques.
Businesses and companies
wanted to buy the stuff out of here,
like Cracker Barrel.
Things were going so high.
A little Calumet jar,
canned Calumet went for $40.
Wow.
One of the locals heard
the guy from Cracker Barrel say,
-"These hillbillies have gone crazy."
-[laughter]
Now this you can take…
I know you have a good camera.
If you want it.
-That's the store.
-[gasps]
[Peter] Oh, that's cool.
-These are priceless.
-See, look at that.
How do you feel about someone coming
and putting another business in it?
Oh, I'm thrilled because.…
I'm too old to run the store.
You know,
and nobody in the family wanted it.
And could keep it up and everything.
It broke my heart
just to see it sitting here.
Right. Broke my heart too
and it's not even my store.
You know, so…
No, it's great. There's always change.
You know what I'm saying?
Fantastic.
-So if you want those…
-Yes, yes.
Look. There's the building right there.
-You got a recipe book?
-Yeah, she's giving me a bunch of recipes.
-Alright.
-Take care you two. Nice meeting you.
-Thanks for stopping by.
-Congratulations.
-Appreciate ya.
-Wish you the best.
-Thank you.
So cool, guys, when we just
spontaneously run into scenes like that.
Real, authentic scenes.
Culture in action. Life in action.
And it goes to show you,
no matter where you're at in the country.
I mean, there's just millions
of different realities
playing out at the same time.
What's happening in
Miami right now or Seattle
is literally like going to
another continent from
being in a place like this.
And that's what makes
the country so interesting.
Alright,
here's the situation we're now in.
No cell phone coverage.
-Guys, Jasper is that way?
-That way.
Get to the T in the road.
Take a left, and then you'll go up
a winding staircase road.
-Okay.
It'll have a sign says Jasper
right before you get into Ponca.
-Yeah, my phone doesn't work anymore.
Ponca's a neat little town
if you got a minute.
-Ponca? Okay.
-Yeah.
Take care guys. Thank you.
So we're now in
no cell phone coverage territory.
At least for the time being where you
ask the locals what road to go down to.
Because you don't travel with a map.
Which makes it more fun.
[country music]
Everyone said you gotta see Ponca.
So here we are.
Kayaking, that seems to be the thing here.
It is kayaking.
Probably a go-to destination
for the tourists.
We must be getting close
to the Buffalo River.
Got a farmer's market here.
Go to Facebook
Ponca Farmer's Market and post it.
-Is that what I gotta do?
Ponca Farmer's Market.
What's the lymphatic tonic elixir?
Park and come look.
She'll tell you all about it. [giggles]
I like your business savvy ma'am.
Like and subscribe.
That's what you were telling me.
I'm interested in the elixir.
-That's her.
-That's me.
What's it gonna do for me?
-It reduces inflammation.
-Okay.
For just about anything.
Snakebite, bee stings, gout.
It helps your lymphatic system.
-What do you have in here?
-It's poke berries…
…with apple cider vinegar and local honey.
It makes a elixir.
What are my inflammation levels
just by first glance?
-Oh, by looking at you?
-Yeah.
I wouldn't be able to tell that.
Let me see your hands.
Pretty big.
-Pretty large.
-They're just big hands though.
But you don't feel inflamed?
No. I was a hand model before.
You've got big knuckles.
-Big knuckles?
-You have big knuckles.
-Then I don't see inflammation.
-It was a joke.
-I wasn't a hand model.
-Oh, okay.
I never had that career.
[laughs]
But maybe.
I mean, maybe there's hope?
I wouldn't put my eggs in one basket.
It would be for like
an axe company or something.
Alright, I'm gonna do this.
-I'm gonna let you sample it.
-We're gonna sample.
Okay. What I've done here today
is this is a tablespoon.
of this elixir with a can
of the sparkling soda.
You'll need to add
some sort of carbonated water
to the elixir to make a drink.
This is a drink you've made.
You'll drink it in the morning, afternoon.
Consume the whole thing.
Your lymphatic system's
gonna pick up what's there.
-You're assisting your lymph system.
-Okay.
And it's gonna gather waste.
It's gonna distribute it down to
your liver and kidney. You'll process it.
The next morning,
when you expel, you just feel better.
-It sounds great.
-It's captured a lot of…
Who doesn't want that?
Nobody. Everybody should want this.
Okay. I'm in. I'm in.
This is more information
about the elixir.
Instructions on how to use it and how to
reach me if you have any questions.
-So if I have problems, I reach you?
-You can call me.
-Give you a call. Wow.
I like your customer service.
That's top notch.
Thank you.
People don't have problems.
They usually want more.
-They want more. Okay.
Ladies, take care.
-Thank you.
-Bye-bye.
All right, guys. Here we are in Jasper.
How's Jasper?
-Yeah, we like it.
-Are you both from here?
-No. You're just traveling through?
-Yeah.
-Is this your daughter?
-Yes, it is.
-Okay.
-What do you think of the Ozarks?
-Good!
-They're good?
-We love it.
-Yeah.
-You having a good time today?
We're good.
So I was reading the Buffalo River,
which you can't really see from the road.
-But I was alongside it for a while.
-Right.
It's a great American conservation story.
Something like 132 miles
where it was never dammed.
It's a free-flowing river.
-Yeah, I've been down the river before.
-Is it sweet?
It's been years when I was younger.
I'm just cruising around.
I'm making a video of the Ozarks.
Do you have anything else
you want to say about the Ozarks?
No?
I live with my dad.
I was here a long time ago.
-Yeah, you were.
-You were here a long time ago.
Yeah, I grew up here.
-Is it cool to come back this time?
-A whole lot.
-Yeah.
-That's awesome.
-See you both. Thank you.
-Yep.
All right, guys. I think now is the time
to start Ann's elixir.
With the instructions.
You know, this is pure concentrate.
What Ann says here at the bottom is
you just want like.
a tablespoon in here
with a fair amount of water.
"Remember, poke is poisonous.
Use responsibly and only as needed.
Adult supervision for children."
[elixir swishing]
Here we go. I'm gonna sip it
and follow it with some water.
Whoa.
That's intense.
Okay, I understand why it's $15 now.
Because a little bit goes a long way,
as Ann said.
Let's hope this doesn't cause problems
today on the road.
Aah.
Whew.
Yeah, that's gonna do something.
That's for sure.
"Civil War in Newton County.
Several military actions took place
in Newton County during the Civil War.
January 10th, 1863,
Union troops attacked and destroyed
a large saltpeter works
on the Buffalo River.
Skirmishes were fought
June 14th, November 15th, 1863.
April 17th, 1864.
Scattering them and claiming
30 killed and 8 captured."
Lot of history around these parts.
Hi.
And we got a cool looking place.
Ozark Cafe.
Christian Motorcyclists Association.
Is that nationwide or worldwide?
[all] Worldwide.
Good camaraderie or what's it all about?
Yeah, it's good.
Everything we do is for missions
and spreading the word.
-Are people taking to the word
more these days or less?
All depends on who you talk to.
A lot of guys are willing to accept it.
You get one once in a while that says,
I just don't believe in it.
But most of the time, like this morning,
I got to pray over six bikes and riders.
-Nice. For their safety?
Yes. Even the ones,
they won't accept prayer for themselves,
they'll accept prayer for their bikes.
Yep. Let's get a picture.
-See the little camera down there?
-Where do you want me?
I make videos all over the country.
It's on YouTube.
Everything from the Amish
to the Bloods and Crips.
And everything in between.
You're right in the middle
of those two groups.
He was probably a Blood back in the day.
-But now he's on…
-[laughter]
Now he's on the side of the Lord.
You've heard people say
I'm a little rough around the edges.
-You're Crips. Look at your blue.
Yeah.
We did church in Eureka Springs
at the Cat House for nine months.
-Okay. At the Cat House?
-Yes, it's a bar.
It's a bar.
-The girls wore dental floss.
-You did service there?
We did it before they opened.
We would pray with the girls.
-I'll get in with you guys.
I don't want to stand in front of you.
Alright. Thanks you guys.
Riding for the son.
Today is our…
-Where we count all our donation money.
-Nice.
Our chapter gathered $15,000.
So we're gonna donate a motorcycle
to a pastor in a third world country.
-Oh that's cool.
So he can help spread the word.
All the time it's not a motorcycle.
Sometimes it's a boat, it's a bicycle.
It's usually a motorcycle.
Whatever they need to get the word out.
-These roads are sweet for riding.
-Yeah.
Actually the pavement
surprisingly is excellent.
For Arkansas it's not bad.
What I've seen so far.
Better than we have up North.
I'm from Michigan.
Every secondary road is just terrible.
-It's all beat up?
He was a communist Canadian.
-You let these union guys in?
Yeah. Once in a while we make a pass.
-I just became a US citizen last week.
-Are you serious?
I've been here since 1972.
-Congrats.
-Green card. I'm legal.
They're white cards.
You know my wife just had
her oath ceremony this last winter.
It's a big deal.
I haven't had the oath ceremony yet.
-I'm past it.
-You're there.
Another six weeks or so
we'll have our oath ceremony.
-How does it feel?
-It feels awesome.
We're from Michigan.
We've only been down here nine years.
-What do you think of these Southern boys?
-We fell in love with them.
Just gotta watch out for
this Canadian here.
She's from Newfoundland.
I picked her up hitchhiking.
-Is that your lady?
-Yeah, that's my wife.
-44 years.
You met by picking her up hitchhiking?
Yeah.
We got 20 grandkids.
That's cool.
I think I read this right.
This is a dry county, correct?
This one is.
-No alcohol for sale?
-Right.
No bars?
Newton County, huh-uh.
You can just travel down the road
a little bit and find one that's not.
People go over to the next county
to get their booze.
-Come back?
-Yep.
So that means
there are no bars in this town.
-None.
-Nope.
And you're also in Newton County.
You're in the only county in Arkansas
that doesn't have a single stoplight.
Not one.
In the whole county.
So this is about as deep Ozark
as you can get, right?
Well, in Arkansas, yeah.
I mean, you can go
a little further south but
yeah, you're right in
the thick of it as far as Arkansas goes.
-If you're part of CMA, you come into
a new town, you already got friends.
We've got family all across the world.
1,500 plus chapters
all across the United States.
So like day one you're going out on a ride
and you got that common thread.
-Absolutely.
-That's cool.
I think we're shy of
200,000 people worldwide.
Something like that, yeah.
We stopped at noon today to pray
and at the same time.
everybody else around the world
was stopped.
-Are you serious?
The whole CMA world
was stopping and praying today
at the same time around the world.
-But if it's noon here,
somewhere else it was 6:00 in afternoon.
9:00 in the morning, 4:00 at night.
Alaska was 9:00 AM.
So it was 12:00 here, Eastern 1:00.
So somewhere else it was…
You can get on our website
and come ride with us.
Changing the world one heart at a time.
-Is it growing?
-Yes.
-Oh, yes.
Is it non-denominational?
You gotta be Catholic or no?
Just believe Jesus died for our sins
so we can be saved.
-And you're in?
-You're in.
And we're not about the motorcycles.
We just use that as a tool.
Because we're a ministry and not a club,
a lot of the clubs
when you ride certain territories
you have to ask permission
to go through there.
-Territories.
-Yeah, territories.
And ministry you don't. They respect…
We're an association center of an MC.
You'll find us at any
major motorcycle rally Laconia, Daytona.
Sturgis or any of
the big rallies across the country.
-You get along with the Hells Angels?
-We get along with all of them.
Even with a name like Hell in their name?
-Well, we're there to be a…
-[Peter laughs]
Smart-a** question, sorry.
Jesus came from Heaven
to Hell or to Earth
to save sinners.
-So you're good with everyone?
Absolutely.
Father in Jesus' name,
we just thank you for Peter
and for this open door
that you've given us today, Lord God,
that we're able to share the message
of Jesus Christ,
that you came from Heaven to Earth
to seek and to save those which are lost.
I don't know if Peter knows
you as his Lord and Savior,
but I speak blessings over Peter,
over his family, give him safety,
traveling mercies, Lord God,
and keep him in the path
that he needs to be in Jesus' name. Amen.
-Amen.
-Amen. Thank you guys.
Alright.
-Appreciate you, Peter.
-Appreciate you, guys.
Busy time of the year right now.
40 miles east of Kansas City,
but I come down to see
my great grandchild, son.
-That's a great grandson?
This is my grandson.
Okay. But I got to see
my great grandson first time today.
-Oh, how'd that feel?
-Great.
[laughter]
-It felt great, great?
Yes, it did!
Follow 7 up the mountain
and take a left on 374.
Up at the top of the mountain.
You'll get the real deal.
You're laughing.
There might be somebody you can talk to.
So get to Vendor, hit some dirt roads.
Yeah. Go cruise around through there.
And they're not dirt, they're gravel.
It looks like Georgia's orange color.
You look like you've followed
a snake through a lot of it.
There'll be potholes
you're gonna hit and bounce on.
It's the real world.
-I want the real deal.
-There ya go.
I've showed a lot of the nice stuff.
Now I'm ready to…
-You'll enjoy it.
-It's like a holler back there.
-Yep.
Make sure you look at your map
before you get down in there
because you are not gonna have service
once you get in there.
And you probably won't, you know…
-Populate your map.
-Okay.
-Have a good day. Be careful.
-See you, guys.
All right.
I knew I wasn't really
seeing it today, guys.
So look, we're covering a lot of ground.
Not getting off on
every little road along the way.
And they said go Vendor,
up into one of the hollers,
and you'll see a different Ozarks.
So that's what we're gonna do.
We're finally getting a view of this place
because most of the day
has been in the trees, in the valleys.
And there's a reason for that.
So it's interesting. Geologically,
instead of tectonic plates pushing upward,
the landscape was formed
by millions of years of water
eroding a flat plateau.
So basically, this is the top
of the flat plateau right up here.
And then years and years
of erosion brought the earth down
and actually created the elevation.
So quite different from
a lot of mountain ranges
where those plates are coming together
and pushing the mountains up.
I'm not a geologist,
but I thought that was cool.
[country music]
All right, guys. Just like
the locals said back in Jasper,
get into Vendor, get on a dirt road,
and you're gonna see a different Ozarks.
I am quite surprised today, actually.
I thought it was gonna be way more
poor than, say, deep Appalachia.
Oh, that's beautiful.
Look at that. That's beautiful.
Nice, clear, clean water.
So yeah, I was thinking it was gonna be
way more blown out looking,
and poor than Appalachia
because they have the strong mining past.
Coal is still happening there.
There are some good paying jobs.
Of course, it's not what it was.
But I was told the Ozarks are just like…
I mean, we're looking at
a Tesla back here in the holler.
So I thought it was gonna be
much poorer than…
Whoa! I think we're at someone's house.
Oops.
[dog barking]
Okay, here we go.
That was the driveway. This is the road.
So, what I was saying is I thought it was
gonna be much worse off economically.
At least in appearance.
You know, like more blown out things
than deep Appalachia.
It's been the opposite.
The regions have some similarities.
You know, they're a Scottish, Irish,
ethnic origin here.
A lot of this stuff,
deep treed-in hillsides.
I think sort of traditionally a similar
self-reliance element to these places.
People wanting to get away
from everything, be on their own.
And so there are those common grounds,
but there is a much different feel.
Everything is what you're used to.
And so when I'm thinking of a rough holler,
this is not my definition of it at all.
This is actually sort of nice.
I was reading last night
about the bushwhacker era here.
Which, from my understanding,
it was full-on guerrilla warfare.
As in neighbors ransacking
and burning down neighbors' houses,
intercounty conflicts, that sort of thing.
Now, I don't know
if that applies to all of the Ozarks,
but some of these far out regions,
just so far from the government
that things were
handled locally many a times.
There was no centralized control out here.
So the bushwhackers,
the Southern sympathizers,
and the Jayhawkers,
the Northern sympathizers,
encouraged a cycle of executions
and house burnings and
internal town and county level
feuds going on.
People turned on each other here.
Just depending on what side they were on
in those times.
So, very rogue.
Very much on their own out here.
And you get a feel once you're out here.
You know, today I have
the camera off most of the time, guys.
Because I've been driving all day.
What is it, 3:00?
Been driving since 8:00 this morning.
It's a huge amount of territory.
It's like
another America that I had no idea existed.
Obviously, I heard of the Ozarks.
But I honestly thought more of lakes.
When I heard Ozarks,
I was thinking Lake of the Ozarks.
I think like a lot of us.
And what a great Netflix series that was.
But then more commonly
are the Ozark mountains.
That's what most people
think of around here.
When you hear the word Ozark,
what do you think?
And they said mountains.
So as an outsider,
I thought it was more about the lakes.
Now, lake of the Ozark is north of here
over the border in Missouri.
So those are Ozarks also.
But this massive territory,
what a surprise.
You could spend weeks and months
exploring all of these nooks and crannies.
[music continues]
…to get to Snowball from here
through Richland Creek.
Richland Creek… That's my wife.
Richland Creek,
in this car, you're not gonna make it.
-Are you serious?
Yeah. It's a rocky creek
and it's probably about 50 yards wide.
-There's no bridge over it?
-No.
I'm not gonna make it out here.
-Not this way, you're not.
-Oh, man.
I've got to turn around?
So what you're gonna have to do
is go back this way,
get your way back out to Highway 65,
and take Highway 65 east.
-How far out is that?
Oh, it's probably 30 minutes from here.
-Ah, jeez. I just came from there.
-[laughs] Yeah.
-You grew up in Southeastern Arkansas?
-Right.
And you sold the land to who?
My grandpa actually leased it
to the Arkansas State Penitentiary
back in the days when the inmates
actually worked on the farm.
Nowadays, you can't make them do that.
And they can't be called a penitentiary.
They had to change it to
"Arkansas Department of Corrections."
-They can't do the farm work anymore?
-No.
It's against their civil rights.
They don't get out there anymore
with their hoes. But it was hard work.
-It was.
-Yeah.
I remember as a kid
I grew up in Southeast Arkansas
until I was about 11 years old.
To get to my house,
you had to drive along this bayou.
At times, you would see
the prisoners out there.
Of course, you know, you had guards
on their horses watching them.
But you'd see prisoners
out there waist deep
digging stumps out of that bayou.
Pulling cotton or working in the field.
-You guys aren't even that old.
-I'm 62.
-I am 55.
And as a child, I can remember
looking across the road from my house
and seeing them work in the field.
-Okay. So what made you guys move up here?
My mom and dad, we left down there
just for personal stuff.
And we moved up to
a little town called Paris,
which is down in the river valley.
And I grew up the rest of my life there.
-Retired from the military.
-Yeah.
Oh, thank you.
Yeah, 34 years of service.
And then you guys just decided
to get up in the sticks here.
We actually dated when we were younger.
-And reconnected after 40 years.
-Yeah.
Did anything change?
A lot, yeah. I was a brat. I was spoiled.
She's still spoiled
but I liked her that way.
-I had dumped him and it was like…
-You dumped him?!
-Oh, she did.
-I did.
You went back. You kept trying.
After 40 years, he had a Bronco
that he had when we dated.
Old '71 Bronco.
And he posted it on Facebook
and that caused us to start a conversation.
And then we decided to meet,
and then here I am.
I sold my house in South Louisiana
and moved back home.
-Wow. So this part of the state…
We are out there right now.
-Yeah.
-We are so out there.
-Let's put it this way…
-We're gonna put a house right there.
Sweet.
Here's how I put everything
in perspective for people.
Like, there's a bank on every corner
in town and everything, you know?
Well, in Arkansas, there's a Dollar General
on almost every corner. Right?
I haven't seen one today.
-Oh, come on.
-'Cause I've been to deep Ozarks all day.
Oh, wow.
-Well, for us…
-The closest one is what?
-30 minutes away.
-30 minutes away. You know.
The nearest Walmart is an hour away.
And for Arkansas, that's huge.
Yeah.
You have to make your trips count. So…
Okay. But why? You just want to be
away from people, get in nature?
Yeah. I'll be honest with you, you know,
and this might rub some people
the wrong way, but society today.
-You're not feeling it?
When you stop, you don't hear traffic,
you don't hear noise.
-The only…
-It's peaceful.
The only thing we get around here is like,
no offense,
people like you, traveling through.
-Look… Which is awesome.
-Curiosity.
And there'll be…
We get a lot of motorcycles.
-Okay.
Street and trail bikes.
This three acres here was completely…
It was covered. It was thick.
I hired somebody
to come and clean it up.
There was an old house here
and it had been here for a while.
This house actually used to
belong to the head guy of the KKK.
-Are you serious?
-Yeah, he started the KKK.
-So that was huge out here?
Oh, yeah. Harrison. It was big.
-Really? Okay.
That's the headquarters.
-No way. Right here?
-Right here.
-That is wild. Okay.
Didn't expect that coming.
-Are those guys still around?
-No.
You don't… I mean…
It probably is
but it's nothing like it used to be.
They're way underground?
A few of them probably?
-I don't know.
-It's pretty outspoken in Harrison.
-What?
-It used to be. The KKK. It used to be.
But you don't really hear
anybody talk about it anymore.
-That's wild.
I didn't even think of that today.
I didn't even think about that.
The main man, the head of it,
used to live right here.
-[Peter] Whew!
-[giggling]
-How's that make you feel?
-Kind of creepy.
When I first found out about it,
I didn't know when I bought the property.
We found out about it
like six months later.
I had a local guy tell me.
He said, "Me and my dad laid the brick
for the chimney in that house."
And I said, oh yeah? He said, yeah.
The guy that owned it at that time
was the head of the KKK.
-And I said shut up.
-[chuckling]
-We had no idea.
-He said, yeah, seriously.
He was a young man then.
Did you get a real low price or something?
Well, let me tell you what,
in this area before COVID,
you could buy land in this area for,
-it depends on what shape it was in…
-[truck roars past]
But you could get it for,
you know, just under $2,000.
-An acre?
-An acre. Yeah.
Not anymore.
Which was, you know, it's a decent price.
Now, the average going, I mean,
just for something like this,
and mind you, it was covered up.
When you drove by it,
you was like, I don't know.
-When he first presented it to me,
I was like, no, I just didn't see it.
-I couldn't see it.
-But now, average price is about…
For an area like this,
it's like $5,000 an acre.
-Okay.
But you get people living in California
where they're selling their…
What we have a home here
that goes for, say,
$150,000 is selling for
over a million dollars there.
Well, they're coming here
and buying a lot,
you know, just a lot of land.
-Not even an acre.
-For $30,000, $40,000.
And that's over on Highway 7,
Scenic Highway 7.
-Okay. So the locals who are selling
are like, oh, we're banking here.
A lot of them are.
-He went out literally to check the mail.
And the guy that owns this place was
coming down the road and they're talking.
I said, what are you doing?
He said, I just bought the place next door.
I'm gonna get my checkbook.
And it literally happened
at the end of the driveway
while he was checking the mail.
-That is a wild story.
-Yeah.
What you see is just,
I guess, I don't know,
just the face of everything.
Yeah.
You go out into these woods
and you see old home places,
you know, where flowers are growing up.
Where houses used to be.
You can find lilies that are growing up
out in the middle of the woods
from old home places around here.
-So I heard back in the day
in Civil War times,
you're either with the North or the South.
And they were like neighbors
going at each other.
-That was a thing, huh?
-Oh, absolutely. Around here.
A lot of these foundations you see
might just be from that time.
-Who knows?
-Oh, yeah, before that.
A lot are before the Civil War.
What are people doing for work out here?
Well, I mean,
if you don't have your own business…
Or retired.
You have a lot of loggers
and people have sawmills.
-Okay.
-Stuff like that.
But I mean, if you don't have
something of your own business,
a lot of people,
they travel out like into Harrison.
They have to go like an hour or so.
Our neighbor works remotely.
To Harrison or to Russellville.
I work remotely. He has retirement.
So you find some people
who have remote jobs.
Okay. So then there are not
many kids out here?
-Not many.
-No.
-You probably came through Mount Judy.
-Yep.
This school probably has 150 kids.
Let's say they're graduating class
this year may have been 10 kids.
Today's a great day where it's like
if you turn on the television
or look online, right?
The media, the politicians,
they're pitting us against one another.
Right.
I get on the road,
nothing but smiles and people are cool.
There's an a-hole every,
you know, you run into them.
When I hear like, oh, civil war,
it's just the dumbest thing
'cause I don't care who you voted for
and most people don't give a sh*t.
-Right. I don't care.
-I don't think.
If you're cool to someone…
That's my neighbor down here,
she's full-blood Democrat, you know?
And she hates Trump and all this and that.
-But you know what?
-I love her to death.
-That's cool.
-She's a good old woman.
-You know, I take care of her.
-He mows her yard.
-That's how it should be.
-But we don't talk politics.
I'm not gonna let that stuff
come between me and you.
That's smart.
I best be on my way, guys.
-All right.
-Peter…
Man, it was good meeting you, dude.
-Absolutely.
-[laughter]
That's a good one.
I won't do that to you.
[Peter] How are you doing, sir?
-How's the food here?
-Pretty good.
-Pretty good?
-Yep.
It's the only thing in town.
Yep. The only thing in town.
[old timey banjo music plays]
Wow, this is cool.
"Hillbilly Slims"
[woman] …burnt a couple years back.
-The whole place burnt a couple years back?
It had a bad storm that night
and it hit one of the transformers.
-Oh!
It sailed through the whole thing.
And at the time, we had
a woodworking shop in the back of it.
-Okay.
And so, as soon as it hit that,
all the lacquer,
and Sawdust, and wood, just…
-It just blew up?
-So this is all new?
-Yep. All new.
All right guys,
I rate the pulled pork sandwich.
super tender pork,
soft, not dried out at all.
I'll give that a nine.
But I'm no food critic at all.
But that's good.
And it is just so cool today.
One thing I want to say.
You know, usually I think of
places like Arizona or Montana.
Those big open road trips, right?
Where you just get lost on the road.
You don't see things
for a long period of time.
And while Arkansas is its own thing
and things are tighter here
and more treed-in,
it almost has that epic road trip feel.
Actually, it does have
that epic road trip feel.
Today it was like,
I don't know,
six hours constantly driving at least.
And you stop in the small town
and people want to talk.
The people here are fantastic.
They're so cool.
Stop in the town, talk to people,
hit the open road,
see the…
Absorb the beautiful nature.
And it's awesome. I'm working.
I gotta get the video to you guys.
So I gotta talk to people,
find the stories.
I'm constantly looking like
what's gonna be interesting to show.
So it's not like
I'm relaxed and chilling.
But if you come out
to this part of the country,
just got some time
and car in the open road,
it is so cool.
There's nothing better, I think.
And the reason I always
support these businesses
in these videos, small businesses,
is because without them,
we just have chains,
and there's soul in this,
and there's someone's livelihood,
a local family's livelihood most likely.
I don't know the guy,
but I always like to try to promote
these places because without them,
they don't really have
any cool places to stop.
I don't get too excited about chains.
So I know a lot of you don't either.
That's the reason I drop these links.
I'll drop this link in the description.
And again,
I don't know this guy, zero affiliation.
But hey, respect
to anyone trying to make it
especially in food and beverage.
Like this is not easy
look at this location.
We're in the middle of nowhere.
Like how many cars
have passed since I've sat down?
I don't know. One?
And it's gotta be hard
hiring people, getting food out here.
This is a huge facility.
I'm sure they got their busy times,
but mid summer, mid winter,
I'm sure it's ghostly quiet.
So always want to support local businesses
if I think they're good,
this is a good sandwich, so it's worth it.
[country music]
We have old Snowball here.
Look at this place.
Look at that old drink vending machine.
That thing is ancient. Wow.
Snowball. So the locals
meant to call this place Snow Hall
after Sheriff Benjamin Franklin Snow.
But when they petitioned
for a post office,
the name was reportedly
misread as Snowball.
The post office operated until 1966.
So they say.
So the Internet says.
But this is still open, I heard.
I talked to a guy off camera
a few towns over
and he said they still have
the Mason's Lodge functioning.
"4th Saturday 7:00."
[Peter] Are you a Mason?
-No.
I live here but I'm not…
-What's your name?
-Alan.
Alan. Peter.
Now right there is…
Good pressure.
They don't shake hands that hard.
-They're really weak.
-The Masons shake really weak?
-Come here.
-How do they shake?
-Just relax your hands.
-All right.
-It's not my type of shake.
-It's limp.
She's got a better… You're a Mason?
-No.
-You're not a Mason. Mason are men.
-She cannot be a Mason.
-I can't be.
Okay what's going
on in Snowball these days?
We have an adventure race next weekend.
-Running race?
-You run to the river.
-Yep.
-Kayak to Tyler Bend.
-Nice.
And ride your bicycle back here.
It's cool community out here?
And that's basically it.
You know what I mean?
-Everyone knows everyone?
Yeah.
They know what you're doing
before you even do it.
You know Arkansas
from what I've seen so far,
it's like different countries.
I was in Bentonville this morning.
That's like another country.
I was in Pine Bluff.
Yeah.
Yeah it's definitely another country.
And now I'm out in the Ozarks
and I had no idea they were so big.
I've been driving all day.
And I haven't even gotten across them yet.
I was trying to get to
Mountain View before sundown
but I don't think I'm gonna do it.
-It's a couple hours.
-A couple hours still?
Jeez.
Did you guys grew up here?
-Uh he did.
-I…
I have lived like a mile
from here in my life.
How was it growing up here?
That was great here.
There is no crime.
-No crime?
Zero!
She moved in here.
She'll tell you the same d*** thing.
-Where'd you move in from?
-Amarillo, Texas.
Oh, no way.
How do you like it up here
compared to Texas?
Oh, I love it here.
I loved Amarillo too,
but my mom and dad
needed me to take care of them.
-So I moved up here.
-Oh, okay.
And you agree, no crime here?
Very, very little.
-That's what you want in today's world.
-There's a gun and the keys in the truck.
-Leave the keys
and the guns in, you're all good.
Yeah, nobody's gonna bother you.
You guys self-regulate.
You're not gonna let it get out of line.
-Well, yeah.
-Right?
Or you got a good sheriff?
-Got a good what?
-Sheriff.
Sorry, my accent's bad.
Sh*t, we are our own sheriff.
Is my accent pretty bad?
-No, it's not.
-I can't hear.
-I've got ear problems.
-Oh, okay.
I love the accent here. I think it's cool.
Searcy  County has its own language.
-You guys got your own language?
-Yeah.
It took me six months before I could
even understand anything he said.
-They said things differently here?
-Mm-hmm.
How so? Like what?
Well, like he said
he was going jitterbugging,
which is some kind of fishing,
catching fish.
And I thought
they were gonna go dancing.
Because that's what jitterbugging is.
So for the jitterbug,
she was all dressed up
and you disappointed her with fishing.
-Yeah.
-Yeah. We…
We was fishing. [laughs]
Well, thanks for the chair.
Appreciate it.
She's as opposite from me
as you can possibly get.
Well, she is a woman.
-Do what?
-Politically.
-Politically, you guys are different?
-Mm-hmm.
We're completely different.
But you get along?
-Oh, most of the time. Yeah.
-[chuckling]
-Are you a couple or just friends?
-Oh, no. We're a couple.
-We're a couple.
What do you two think about
the country right now?
It's very divided.
Online it's just…
-But if you just talk to people…
-I think if you look at…
I think if you look at your godd*** phone,
that you're gonna be mad at somebody.
That's wisdom bomb right there.
If you look at your godd*** phone,
you're gonna be mad at somebody.
-Yeah?
-You are.
I mean, sh*t…
That's exactly true.
If you're on social media scrolling,
the rage is gonna hit you eventually.
If you didn't have that d*** phone,
everybody would get along.
'Cause I walk up here as a stranger.
I say hi. You say hi. You're friendly.
You don't care where I'm from,
who I voted for, nothing like that.
I don't give a sh*t.
That's Snowball.
Somebody pulls up there at the store,
hey, come over and have a beer.
-And that's what most of it is.
Especially in the Ozarks.
I've had no problem
talking to anyone here today.
Well, we've been up to
the Northeast doing rock skipping.
And people are just as friendly there.
-Maine.
-Northeast Maine.
Oh, nice.
Pennsylvania.
Yeah, he's a rock skipper.
You're a professional rock skipper?
-Yeah.
-Seriously?
How many skips can you get?
The most I've ever gotten
in competition is like 35.
You compete rock skipping?
But the most I've ever done
is probably I think 50 but…
I compete.
-Do you have any trophies?
-Mm-hmm.
-Yeah.
Okay.
This is the second place and that was '22.
-These are cool trophies.
Okay. So that's like the best type
of skipping stone you want.
-Just like that, right?
-Yeah.
That's cool.
Did you meet the world champion?
Oh yeah. He's our bud.
What's it like living out here?
It's just simple life, country living?
Do your work, hang out with buddies,
pull back some cold ones.
Sit around, drink beer.
Not much going on around here.
Yeah, there's not. Okay.
Saturdays, the store is open
and we get tourists.
-What's it like living here?
-Yeah.
I can make phone calls
and I can have 10 people here
to help me in five minutes.
This'd be a good time for a Jim to show up.
-You're from where?
-I was born in Vermont.
I live in Florida now.
Big town, little town?
Big compared to Snowball.
Okay.
Can you call on anybody to have help?
10 people, no.
I've only lived there for four years.
-Four years?
-Yeah.
You want to show me the general store?
-Yeah. I work there.
-Love to see it.
-We're going to the store.
-What?
We're going to the store.
-Oh, you are?
-Yeah.
-You coming?
-Well I'll go too.
So Alan's got the oldest house
in Snowball over here.
-That's what we've heard.
-Okay.
What about that one down there?
Is anyone living in there?
No. That's been empty for a long time.
Lots of raccoons live in there.
And this is an Airbnb.
This house for sale?
Yeah. It's for sale.
But yeah, we rent it out.
Do you know what they're asking for it?
-$250,000.
-$250? Really? That much?
Yeah.
-Alan took the shortcut.
Oh, this is awesome.
This is the grocery store
and the post office.
-People from Snowball are shopping here?
Or who's shopping here?
-Well, now it's just like for tourists.
-You getting some tourists by here?
-T-shirts and hats and souvenirs.
-You got your old PO boxes.
-Yep.
-And the Snowball, the name came from
some guy misspelled it, right?
Right. Yeah, it should be Snow Hall.
But the H looked like a B,
so they called it Snowball.
-It's his great-grandfather.
-It's my great-grandpa.
His name was Snow when they sent
it out as Snow Hall
when it come back it was Snowball
'cause I guess
he couldn't write worth a sh*t.
But…
[chuckling]
anyway.
-What are you gonna do?
Okay, so people should come here to shop
when they're on their road trips?
Yeah, it still has all the old…
-What are those?
The postal stamps.
-Oh, no way.
-That's what they look like?
-Mm-hmm.
I never knew that was there.
Oh, nice. That's cool.
-Insured.
One of them says Snowball.
Oh, there it is.
Snowball, Arkansas.
-Snowball, Arkansas. Nice.
Six or seven-year-old.
My mom didn't buy me a candy bar
or a pop or whatever.
I went outside
and I slammed the d*** door.
She went out on the porch
and she called me back.
-Uh-huh.
There was probably 20 old men
sitting around that stove right there.
I thought she was gonna whoop my a**.
She made me open and close that door
really easily
a hundred times.
[Peter chuckles]
I never was as embarrassed in my life.
That's the worst embarrassment
I've ever been in.
-Open and close a hundred times.
-A hundred times.
In front of all them old bastards
sitting back there.
Okay, this guy up here?
Yeah.
With the big feet, that's Buster Scott.
-What's his story?
-He had the biggest feet…
-Biggest feet in the world!
-In the world.
-Is he from around here?
Yeah.
What size?
-He has like 16s or something?
-42s.
Them are real.
-What? 42s?
-42s.
Come on.
He was with Barnum and Bailey.
Okay, so he was with the traveling circus.
He made a ton of money.
Put Snowball on the map?
-He did.
I mean, he's famous.
-Who's buying these?
-Hunters.
-Okay.
-Deer hunters.
-Thank you.
-On me.
-Appreciate it.
Appreciate it.
All right, guys. End of the road for today.
I got to say the Arkansas Ozarks
far exceeded my expectations.
What a beautiful part of the country.
I had no idea.
And this is part of
a greater Arkansas series.
If you like this video,
check out my last one on Bentonville
and the one before on Pine Bluff.
Such a cool place,
such a cool part of America.
Thanks for coming along
on that journey guys.
Until the next one.
[country music]